OSDOCS2506: Architecture Overview (#40012)
openshift/openshift-docs: architecture/index.adoc

[id="architecture-overview"]
= Architecture overview
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: architecture-overview

toc::[]

{product-title} is a cloud-based Kubernetes container platform.
The foundation of {product-title} is based on Kubernetes and therefore shares the same technology.

> To learn more about {product-title} and Kubernetes, refer to the xref:../architecture/architecture.adoc#architecture[product architecture].

Reviewer: refer to -> see (per the IBM style guide)

[id="about-installation-and-updates"]
== About installation and updates

As a cluster administrator, you can use the {product-title} xref:../architecture/architecture-installation.adoc#architecture-installation[installation program] to install and deploy a cluster by using one of the following methods:

> ** Installer-provisioned infrastructure (IPI)

Reviewer: We actually don't allow IPI and UPI abbreviations for these in the docs, so suggest to remove them here

** User-provisioned infrastructure (UPI)

[id="about-control-planes"]

> == About control planes

Reviewer: There is just a single control plane, so suggest "About the control plane"

The xref:../architecture/control-plane.adoc#control-plane[control plane] manages the worker nodes and the pods in your cluster. You can configure nodes with the use of machine config pools (MCPs).
MCPs are groups of machines, such as control plane components or user workloads, that are based on the resources that they handle.
{product-title} assigns different roles to hosts. These roles define the function of a machine in a cluster.
The cluster contains definitions for the standard control plane and worker role types.

> You can use Operators to package, deploy, and manage services on the control plane. With Operators, you can use `kubectl` and `oc` commands.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this sentence is providing much value: "With Operators, you can use `kubectl` and `oc` commands." You use oc to manage everything about the cluster

I'd suggest removing it

Author: removed

Operators are important components in {product-title} because they provide the following services:

* Perform health checks

> * Enable the way to watch an application

Reviewer: Could this be shortened "Provide ways to watch applications" or something similar?

Author: re-phrased

* Manage over-the-air updates
* Ensure applications stay in the specified state

[id="about-containerized-applications-for-developers"]
== About containerized applications for developers

As a developer, you can use different tools, methods, and formats to xref:../architecture/understanding-development.adoc#understanding-development[develop your containerized application] based on your unique requirements, for example:

> - Use various build-tool, base-image, and registry options to build a simple container application.

Reviewer: Suggest changing the "-" to "*" for these bullets. Asterisks are the preferred syntax for bullets.

- Use supporting components such as OperatorHub and templates to develop your application.
- Package and deploy your application as an Operator.

You can also create a Kubernetes manifest and store it in a Git repository.
Kubernetes works on basic units called pods. A pod is a single instance of a running process in your cluster. Pods can contain one or more containers.
You can create a service by grouping a set of pods and their access policies.
Services provide permanent internal IP addresses and host names for other applications to use as pods are created and destroyed. Kubernetes defines workloads based on the type of your application.

[id="coreos-and-ignition"]
== About {op-system-first} and Ignition

> As a cluster administrator, you can perform the following tasks:

Reviewer: Should this specify that the tasks are related to RHCOS?

Reviewer 2: +1

** Learn about the next generation of xref:../architecture/architecture-rhcos.adoc#architecture-rhcos[single-purpose container operating system technology].
** Choose how to configure {op-system-first}
** Choose how to deploy {op-system-first}:
*** Installer-provisioned deployment
*** User-provisioned deployment

The {product-title} installation program creates the Ignition configuration files that you need to deploy your cluster.
{op-system-first} uses Ignition during the initial configuration to perform common disk tasks, such as partitioning, formatting, writing files, and configuring users.
During the first boot, Ignition reads its configuration from the installation media or the location that you specify and applies the configuration to the machines.

> You can learn how xref:../architecture/architecture-rhcos.adoc#architecture-rhcos[Ignition works], the process for an {op-system-first} machine in an {product-title} cluster, view Ignition configuration files, and change Ignition configuration after an installation.

Reviewer: * the process for an -> the process for a 
* I'm assuming that this link for how ignition works is supposed to jump further down, to https://deploy-preview-40012--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/architecture/architecture-rhcos.html#about-ignition_architecture-rhcos

Author: I have included a ref to the assembly in which we have the content `How Ignition works` from the module titled **rhcos-about.adoc**

[id="overview-of-architecture"]
= Overview of architecture
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: overview-of-architecture

toc::[]

{product-title} is a cloud-based Kubernetes container platform.
The foundation of {product-title} is based on Kubernetes and therefore shares the same technology.
To learn more about {product-title} and Kubernetes, refer to xref:../architecture/architecture.adoc#architecture[product architecture].

[id="about-installation-and-updates"]
== About installation and updates

> As a cluster administrator, you can use the {product-title} xref:../architecture/architecture-installation.adoc#architecture-installation[installation program] to install to deploy a cluster on:

Author: yes, this suggestion sounds good. I would like to keep it as a list to keep it simple.

** Installer-provisioned infrastructure clusters (IPI)
** User-provisioned infrastructure clusters (UPI)

> [id="About-control-planes"]

Author: yes correct my mistake

== About control planes

The xref:../architecture/control-plane.adoc#control-plane[control plane] manages the worker nodes and the pods in your cluster. You can configure nodes with the use of machine config pools (MCP).
Machine config pools are groups of machines such as, control plane components or user workloads. These groups are based on the resources handled.
{product-title} assigns hosts different roles. These roles define the function of a machine in a cluster.
The cluster contains definitions for the standard master and worker role types.

> You can use operators to package, deploy, and manage services on the control plane. With operators, you can use `kubectl` and `oc` commands.

Author: Yeah missed out one instance , rest all are Caps

Operators are important components in {product-title} because they:

* Perform health checks.
* Enable the way to watch an application.
* Manage over-the-air updates.
* Ensure applications stay in the specified state.

[id="how-to-develop-your-containerized-application"]

> == How to develop your containerized application

Reviewer 2: This heading sounds like it would be a procedure. You might consider something more conceptual, such as "Containerized applications for developers"

As a developer, you can xref:../architecture/understanding-development.adoc#understanding-development[develop your containerized application] in many ways and there are different approaches based on requirements.
You can use different tools, methods, and formats to develop your containerized application. You can build a simple container application with the various container build tool, base image, and registry options.
You can use supporting components such as OperatorHub and templates to develop your application.

> If you want to make your application, you can package and deploy your application as an Operator.

Author: I like the way it's structured (information mapping>> chunking principle https://3di-info.com/can-information-mapping-help-us-write-better-technical-documentation/)

You can also create a Kubernetes manifest and store it in a Git repository.

> Kubernetes works on basic units called `pods`. Pods are the next step in application development.

Reviewer 2: No backticks needed here for "pods" as it is a generic concept.
```suggestion
Kubernetes works on basic units called pods. Pods are the next step in application development.
```

Author: How about dropping that sentence and replace with :  `A pod is a single instance of a running process in your cluster. Pod can contain one or more containers.`

Author: @bobfuru your thoughts.

Reviewer 2: I like it! for second sentence: `s/Pod/Pods`

> A service is a grouping of a logical set of pods and access policies. Services provide permanent internal IP addresses and host names for other applications to use as pods are created and destroyed.

Author: done +1

Based on the type of your application, Kubernetes defines a specific type of workload.

> [id="coreOS"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="coreos"]
```

> == All you need to know about Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)

Reviewer 2: I might have already commented about this, but I'm not in love with this heading. It's not really all you need to know if you are doing a UPI install. How about something simple, such as, "RHCOS basics"?

Author: rephrased to **Basics of  Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)**

> == All you need to know about Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== All you need to know about {op-system-first}
```

> As a cluster administrator, you can

Reviewer 2: This part in general needs some rework. The lead-in sentence shouldn't be fragmented, so something like, "As a cluster administrator, you can perform the following tasks" would be better. But in the list itself, the tense doesn't match. And also, it's a lot of bullets for basically one statement, which is that "cluster administrators can configure and deploy RHCOS on either installer-provisioned infrastructure or user-provisioned infrastructure", right?

And since RHCOS provides Ignition files, I'd consider combining those two sections into one. Something simple for a header would probably suffice, such as, "RHCOS and Ignition"

> ** Know all about the key features of the next generation of xref:../architecture/architecture-rhcos.adoc#architecture-rhcos[single-purpose container operating system technology].

Reviewer 2: This list item sounds like marketing language more than anything; I'd consider dropping it.

** Choose how to configure RHOCS

> ** Choose how to deploy RHOCS:

Reviewer 2: Be sure to use the attribute for RHCOS: `{op-system-first}` or `{op-system}`

Author: done

*** Installer-provisioned deployment
*** User-provisioned deployment

[id="what-you-can-do-with-ignition"]
== What you can do with Ignition

> The {product-title} installation program creates the ignition configuration files that you need to deploy your cluster.
> RHOCS uses Ignition for common disk tasks such as partitioning disks,formatting partitions, writing files, and configuring users, during the initial configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {product-title} installation program creates the Ignition configuration files that you need to deploy your cluster.
{op-system} uses Ignition during the initial configuration to perform common disk tasks such as partitioning, formatting, writing files, and configuring users.
```

During the first boot, Ignition reads its configuration from the installation media or the location that you specify and applies the configuration to the machines.

> You can learn how Ignition works, the process for an RHCOS machine in an {product-title} cluster, view Ignition configuration files, and change Ignition configuration after an installation.

Reviewer 2: This says you can learn these things, but it doesn't point to where. Is this describing what the Architecture documentation informs you about? If so, perhaps something like this would make sense?
```suggestion
The {op-system} Architecture (link: https://deploy-preview-40012--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/architecture/architecture-rhcos.html) documentation can help you learn more about the following topics:
* How Ignition works
* The life cycle of an {op-system} machine in an {product-title} cluster
* Viewing Ignition configuration files
* Changing Ignition configuration files after an installation
```

Author: Can we use netlify preview link, I am not sure?

Author: Yes it describes the existing Arch doc

Author: I have included xref.... to the assembly that has the Ignition module.

[id="what-are-admission-plug-ins"]

> == What are admission plug-ins

Reviewer 2: This needs a question mark if phrasing in the form of a question. But ISG would like us to not use question-style headings:

> Do not use question-style headings in books or concepts,
tasks, or reference topics. Questions such as "What is a
client program?" are appropriate only in tutorials or how-to
documents

Author: Will re-phrase

> You can use xref:../architecture/admission-plug-ins.adoc#admission-plug-ins[admission plug-ins] to regulate how {product-title} functions. After a resource request is authenticated and authorized, admission plug-ins intercepts the resource request to the master API to validate resource requests and ensure scaling policies are adhered to.

Reviewer 2: I like that this xref logically both puts the reader directly at the point of reference in the Arch docs and matches the name of that section.

> You can use xref:../architecture/admission-plug-ins.adoc#admission-plug-ins[admission plug-ins] to regulate how {product-title} functions. After a resource request is authenticated and authorized, admission plug-ins intercepts the resource request to the master API to validate resource requests and ensure scaling policies are adhered to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use xref:../architecture/admission-plug-ins.adoc#admission-plug-ins[admission plug-ins] to regulate how {product-title} functions. After a resource request is authenticated and authorized, admission plug-ins intercept the resource request to the master API to validate resource requests and to ensure that scaling policies are adhered to.
```
